 E
 VERY MOMENT IN BUSINESS happens only once. The next Bill Gates will not
 build an operating system. The next Larry Page or Sergey Brin won’t
 make a search engine. And the next Mark Zuckerberg won’t create a social
 network. If you are copying these guys, you aren’t learning from them.
 Of course, it’s easier to copy a model than to make something new. Doing
 what we already know how to do takes the world from 1 to n, adding more of
 something familiar. But every time we create something new, we go from 0 to
 1. The act of creation is singular, as is the moment of creation, and the result is
 something fresh and strange.
 Unless they invest in the difficult task of creating new things, American
 companies will fail in the future no matter how big their profits remain today.
 What happens when we’ve gained everything to be had from fine-tuning the
 old lines of business that we’ve inherited? Unlikely as it sounds, the answer
 threatens to be far worse than the crisis of 2008. Today’s “best practices” lead to
 dead ends; the best paths are new and untried.
 In a world of gigantic administrative bureaucracies both public and private,
 searching for a new path might seem like hoping for a miracle. Actually, if
 American business is going to succeed, we are going to need hundreds, or even
 thousands, of miracles. This would be depressing but for one crucial fact:
 humans are distinguished from other species by our ability to work miracles.
 We call these miracles technology.
 Technology is miraculous because it allows us to do more with less, ratcheting
 up our fundamental capabilities to a higher level. Other animals are
 instinctively driven to build things like dams or honeycombs, but we are the
 only ones that can invent new things and better ways of making them. Humans
 don’t decide what to build by making choices from some cosmic catalog of
 options given in advance; instead, by creating new technologies, we rewrite the
plan of the world. These are the kind of elementary truths we teach to second
 graders, but they are easy to forget in a world where so much of what we do is
 repeat what has been done before.
 Zero to One is about how to build companies that create new things. It draws
 on everything I’ve learned directly as a co-founder of PayPal and Palantir and
 then an investor in hundreds of startups, including Facebook and SpaceX. But
 while I have noticed many patterns, and I relate them here, this book offers no
 formula for success. The paradox of teaching entrepreneurship is that such a
 formula necessarily cannot exist; because every innovation is new and unique,
 no authority can prescribe in concrete terms how to be innovative. Indeed, the
 single most powerful pattern I have noticed is that successful people find value
 in unexpected places, and they do this by thinking about business from first
 principles instead of formulas.
 This book stems from a course about startups that I taught at Stanford in
 2012. College students can become extremely skilled at a few specialties, but
 many never learn what to do with those skills in the wider world. My primary
 goal in teaching the class was to help my students see beyond the tracks laid
 down by academic specialties to the broader future that is theirs to create. One
 of those students, Blake Masters, took detailed class notes, which circulated far
 beyond the campus, and in Zero to One I have worked with him to revise the
 notes for a wider audience. There’s no reason why the future should happen
 only at Stanford, or in college, or in Silicon Valley.
THE CHALLENGE OF THE FUTURE
 W
 HENEVER I INTERVIEW someone for a job, I like to ask this question:
 “What important truth do very few people agree with you on?”
 This question sounds easy because it’s straightforward. Actually, it’s very hard
 to answer. It’s intellectually difficult because the knowledge that everyone is
 taught in school is by definition agreed upon. And it’s psychologically difficult
 because anyone trying to answer must say something she knows to be
 unpopular. Brilliant thinking is rare, but courage is in even shorter supply than
 genius.
 Most commonly, I hear answers like the following:
 “Our educational system is broken and urgently needs to be fixed.”
 “America is exceptional.”
 “There is no God.”
 Those are bad answers. The first and the second statements might be true,
 but many people already agree with them. The third statement simply takes
 one side in a familiar debate. A good answer takes the following form: “Most
 people believe in x, but the truth is the opposite of x.” I’ll give my own answer
 later in this chapter.
 What does this contrarian question have to do with the future? In the most
 minimal sense, the future is simply the set of all moments yet to come. But
 what makes the future distinctive and important isn’t that it hasn’t happened
 yet, but rather that it will be a time when the world looks different from today.
 In this sense, if nothing about our society changes for the next 100 years, then
 the future is over 100 years away. If things change radically in the next decade,
 then the future is nearly at hand. No one can predict the future exactly, but we
 know two things: it’s going to be different, and it must be rooted in today’s
 world. Most answers to the contrarian question are different ways of seeing the
 present; good answers are as close as we can come to looking into the future.
ZERO TO ONE: THE FUTURE OF PROGRESS
 When we think about the future, we hope for a future of progress. That
 progress can take one of two forms. Horizontal or extensive progress means
 copying things that work—going from 1 to n. Horizontal progress is easy to
 imagine because we already know what it looks like. Vertical or intensive
 progress means doing new things—going from 0 to 1. Vertical progress is
 harder to imagine because it requires doing something nobody else has ever
 done. If you take one typewriter and build 100, you have made horizontal
 progress. If you have a typewriter and build a word processor, you have made
 vertical progress.
 At the macro level, the single word for horizontal progress is globalization—
 taking things that work somewhere and making them work everywhere. China
 is the paradigmatic example of globalization; its 20-year plan is to become like
the United States is today. The Chinese have been straightforwardly copying
 everything that has worked in the developed world: 19th-century railroads,
 20th-century air conditioning, and even entire cities. They might skip a few
 steps along the way—going straight to wireless without installing landlines, for
 instance—but they’re copying all the same.
 The single word for vertical, 0 to 1 progress is technology. The rapid progress
 of information technology in recent decades has made Silicon Valley the capital
 of “technology” in general. But there is no reason why technology should be
 limited to computers. Properly understood, any new and better way of doing
 things is technology.
 Because globalization and technology are different modes of progress, it’s
 possible to have both, either, or neither at the same time. For example, 1815 to
 1914 was a period of both rapid technological development and rapid
 globalization. Between the First World War and Kissinger’s trip to reopen
 relations with China in 1971, there was rapid technological development but
 not much globalization. Since 1971, we have seen rapid globalization along with
 limited technological development, mostly confined to IT.
 This age of globalization has made it easy to imagine that the decades ahead
 will bring more convergence and more sameness. Even our everyday language
suggests we believe in a kind of technological end of history: the division of the
 world into the so-called developed and developing nations implies that the
 “developed” world has already achieved the achievable, and that poorer nations
 just need to catch up.
 But I don’t think that’s true. My own answer to the contrarian question is
 that most people think the future of the world will be defined by globalization,
 but the truth is that technology matters more. Without technological change, if
 China doubles its energy production over the next two decades, it will also
 double its air pollution. If every one of India’s hundreds of millions of
 households were to live the way Americans already do—using only today’s tools
 —the result would be environmentally catastrophic. Spreading old ways to
 create wealth around the world will result in devastation, not riches. In a world
 of scarce resources, globalization without new technology is unsustainable.
 New technology has never been an automatic feature of history. Our
 ancestors lived in static, zero-sum societies where success meant seizing things
 from others. They created new sources of wealth only rarely, and in the long
 run they could never create enough to save the average person from an
 extremely hard life. Then, after 10,000 years of fitful advance from primitive
 agriculture to medieval windmills and 16th-century astrolabes, the modern
 world suddenly experienced relentless technological progress from the advent of
 the steam engine in the 1760s all the way up to about 1970. As a result, we have
 inherited a richer society than any previous generation would have been able to
 imagine.
 Any generation excepting our parents’ and grandparents’, that is: in the late
 1960s, they expected this progress to continue. They looked forward to a four
day workweek, energy too cheap to meter, and vacations on the moon. But it
 didn’t happen. The smartphones that distract us from our surroundings also
 distract us from the fact that our surroundings are strangely old: only
 computers and communications have improved dramatically since midcentury.
 That doesn’t mean our parents were wrong to imagine a better future—they
 were only wrong to expect it as something automatic. Today our challenge is to
 both imagine and create the new technologies that can make the 21st century
 more peaceful and prosperous than the 20th.
STARTUP THINKING
 New technology tends to come from new ventures—startups. From the
 Founding Fathers in politics to the Royal Society in science to Fairchild
 Semiconductor’s “traitorous eight” in business, small groups of people bound
 together by a sense of mission have changed the world for the better. The easiest
 explanation for this is negative: it’s hard to develop new things in big
 organizations, and it’s even harder to do it by yourself. Bureaucratic hierarchies
 move slowly, and entrenched interests shy away from risk. In the most
 dysfunctional organizations, signaling that work is being done becomes a better
 strategy for career advancement than actually doing work (if this describes
 your company, you should quit now). At the other extreme, a lone genius might
 create a classic work of art or literature, but he could never create an entire
 industry. Startups operate on the principle that you need to work with other
 people to get stuff done, but you also need to stay small enough so that you
 actually can.
 Positively defined, a startup is the largest group of people you can convince
 of a plan to build a different future. A new company’s most important strength
 is new thinking: even more important than nimbleness, small size affords space
 to think. This book is about the questions you must ask and answer to succeed
 in the business of doing new things: what follows is not a manual or a record of
 knowledge but an exercise in thinking. Because that is what a startup has to do:
 question received ideas and rethink business from scratch.
PARTY LIKE IT’S 1999
 O
 UR CONTRARIAN QUESTION—What important truth do very few people agree
 with you on?—is difficult to answer directly. It may be easier to start with
 a preliminary: what does everybody agree on? “Madness is rare in individuals
 —but in groups, parties, nations, and ages it is the rule,” Nietzsche wrote
 (before he went mad). If you can identify a delusional popular belief, you can
 f
 ind what lies hidden behind it: the contrarian truth.
 Consider an elementary proposition: companies exist to make money, not to
 lose it. This should be obvious to any thinking person. But it wasn’t so obvious
 to many in the late 1990s, when no loss was too big to be described as an
 investment in an even bigger, brighter future. The conventional wisdom of the
 “New Economy” accepted page views as a more authoritative, forward-looking
 f
 inancial metric than something as pedestrian as profit.
 Conventional beliefs only ever come to appear arbitrary and wrong in
 retrospect; whenever one collapses, we call the old belief a bubble. But the
 distortions caused by bubbles don’t disappear when they pop. The internet
 craze of the ’90s was the biggest bubble since the crash of 1929, and the lessons
 learned afterward define and distort almost all thinking about technology
 today. The first step to thinking clearly is to question what we think we know
 about the past.
A QUICK HISTORY OF THE ’90S
 The 1990s have a good image. We tend to remember them as a prosperous,
 optimistic decade that happened to end with the internet boom and bust. But
 many of those years were not as cheerful as our nostalgia holds. We’ve long
 since forgotten the global context for the 18 months of dot-com mania at
 decade’s end.
 The ’90s started with a burst of euphoria when the Berlin Wall came down
 in November ’89. It was short-lived. By mid-1990, the United States was in
 recession. Technically the downturn ended in March ’91, but recovery was slow
 and unemployment continued to rise until July ’92. Manufacturing never fully
 rebounded. The shift to a service economy was protracted and painful.
 1992 through the end of 1994 was a time of general malaise. Images of dead
 American soldiers in Mogadishu looped on cable news. Anxiety about
 globalization and U.S. competitiveness intensified as jobs flowed to Mexico. This
 pessimistic undercurrent drove then-president Bush 41 out of office and won
 Ross Perot nearly 20% of the popular vote in ’92—the best showing for a third
party candidate since Theodore Roosevelt in 1912. And whatever the cultural
 fascination with Nirvana, grunge, and heroin reflected, it wasn’t hope or
 confidence.
 Silicon Valley felt sluggish, too. Japan seemed to be winning the
 semiconductor war. The internet had yet to take off, partly because its
 commercial use was restricted until late 1992 and partly due to the lack of user
friendly web browsers. It’s telling that when I arrived at Stanford in 1985,
 economics, not computer science, was the most popular major. To most people
 on campus, the tech sector seemed idiosyncratic or even provincial.
 The internet changed all this. The Mosaic browser was officially released in
 November 1993, giving regular people a way to get online. Mosaic became
 Netscape, which released its Navigator browser in late 1994. Navigator’s
 adoption grew so quickly—from about 20% of the browser market in January
 1995 to almost 80% less than 12 months later—that Netscape was able to IPO
 in August ’95 even though it wasn’t yet profitable. Within five months, Netscape
stock had shot up from $28 to $174 per share. Other tech companies were
 booming, too. Yahoo! went public in April ’96 with an $848 million valuation.
 Amazon followed suit in May ’97 at $438 million. By spring of ’98, each
 company’s stock had more than quadrupled. Skeptics questioned earnings and
 revenue multiples higher than those for any non-internet company. It was easy
 to conclude that the market had gone crazy.
 This conclusion was understandable but misplaced. In December ’96—more
 than three years before the bubble actually burst—Fed chairman Alan
 Greenspan warned that “irrational exuberance” might have “unduly escalated
 asset values.” Tech investors were exuberant, but it’s not clear that they were so
 irrational. It is too easy to forget that things weren’t going very well in the rest
 of the world at the time.
 The East Asian financial crises hit in July 1997. Crony capitalism and
 massive foreign debt brought the Thai, Indonesian, and South Korean
 economies to their knees. The ruble crisis followed in August ’98 when Russia,
 hamstrung by chronic fiscal deficits, devalued its currency and defaulted on its
 debt. American investors grew nervous about a nation with 10,000 nukes and
 no money; the Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged more than 10% in a
 matter of days.
 People were right to worry. The ruble crisis set off a chain reaction that
 brought down Long-Term Capital Management, a highly leveraged U.S. hedge
 fund. LTCM managed to lose $4.6 billion in the latter half of 1998, and still
 had over $100 billion in liabilities when the Fed intervened with a massive
 bailout and slashed interest rates in order to prevent systemic disaster. Europe
 wasn’t doing that much better. The euro launched in January 1999 to great
 skepticism and apathy. It rose to $1.19 on its first day of trading but sank to
 $0.83 within two years. In mid-2000, G7 central bankers had to prop it up with
 a multibillion-dollar intervention.
 So the backdrop for the short-lived dot-com mania that started in
 September 1998 was a world in which nothing else seemed to be working. The
 Old Economy couldn’t handle the challenges of globalization. Something
 needed to work—and work in a big way—if the future was going to be better
 at all. By indirect proof, the New Economy of the internet was the only way
 forward.
MANIA: SEPTEMBER 1998–MARCH 2000
 Dot-com mania was intense but short—18 months of insanity from September
 1998 to March 2000. It was a Silicon Valley gold rush: there was money
 everywhere, and no shortage of exuberant, often sketchy people to chase it.
 Every week, dozens of new startups competed to throw the most lavish launch
 party. (Landing parties were much more rare.) Paper millionaires would rack
 up thousand-dollar dinner bills and try to pay with shares of their startup’s
 stock—sometimes it even worked. Legions of people decamped from their well
paying jobs to found or join startups. One 40-something grad student that I
 knew was running six different companies in 1999. (Usually, it’s considered
 weird to be a 40-year-old graduate student. Usually, it’s considered insane to
 start a half-dozen companies at once. But in the late ’90s, people could believe
 that was a winning combination.) Everybody should have known that the
 mania was unsustainable; the most “successful” companies seemed to embrace
 a sort of anti-business model where they lost money as they grew. But it’s hard
 to blame people for dancing when the music was playing; irrationality was
 rational given that appending “.com” to your name could double your value
 overnight.

PAYPAL MANIA
 When I was running PayPal in late 1999, I was scared out of my wits—not
 because I didn’t believe in our company, but because it seemed like everyone
 else in the Valley was ready to believe anything at all. Everywhere I looked,
 people were starting and flipping companies with alarming casualness. One
 acquaintance told me how he had planned an IPO from his living room before
 he’d even incorporated his company—and he didn’t think that was weird. In
 this kind of environment, acting sanely began to seem eccentric.
 At least PayPal had a suitably grand mission—the kind that post-bubble
 skeptics would later describe as grandiose: we wanted to create a new internet
 currency to replace the U.S. dollar. Our first product let people beam money
 from one PalmPilot to another. However, nobody had any use for that product
 except the journalists who voted it one of the 10 worst business ideas of 1999.
 PalmPilots were still too exotic then, but email was already commonplace, so
 we decided to create a way to send and receive payments over email.
 By the fall of ’99, our email payment product worked well—anyone could
 log in to our website and easily transfer money. But we didn’t have enough
 customers, growth was slow, and expenses mounted. For PayPal to work, we
 needed to attract a critical mass of at least a million users. Advertising was too
 ineffective to justify the cost. Prospective deals with big banks kept falling
 through. So we decided to pay people to sign up.
 We gave new customers $10 for joining, and we gave them $10 more every
 time they referred a friend. This got us hundreds of thousands of new
 customers and an exponential growth rate. Of course, this customer acquisition
 strategy was unsustainable on its own—when you pay people to be your
 customers, exponential growth means an exponentially growing cost structure.
 Crazy costs were typical at that time in the Valley. But we thought our huge
 costs were sane: given a large user base, PayPal had a clear path to profitability
 by taking a small fee on customers’ transactions.
 We knew we’d need more funding to reach that goal. We also knew that the
 boom was going to end. Since we didn’t expect investors’ faith in our mission to
survive the coming crash, we moved fast to raise funds while we could. On
 February 16, 2000, the Wall Street Journal ran a story lauding our viral growth
 and suggesting that PayPal was worth $500 million. When we raised $100
 million the next month, our lead investor took the Journal’s back-of-the
envelope valuation as authoritative. (Other investors were in even more of a
 hurry. A South Korean firm wired us $5 million without first negotiating a deal
 or signing any documents. When I tried to return the money, they wouldn’t tell
 me where to send it.) That March 2000 financing round bought us the time we
 needed to make PayPal a success. Just as we closed the deal, the bubble popped.
LESSONS LEARNED
 ’Cause they say 2,000 zero zero party over, oops! Out of time!
 So tonight I’m gonna party like it’s 1999!
 —PRINCE
 The NASDAQ reached 5,048 at its peak in the middle of March 2000 and then
 crashed to 3,321 in the middle of April. By the time it bottomed out at 1,114 in
 October 2002, the country had long since interpreted the market’s collapse as a
 kind of divine judgment against the technological optimism of the ’90s. The era
 of cornucopian hope was relabeled as an era of crazed greed and declared to be
 definitely over.
 Everyone learned to treat the future as fundamentally indefinite, and to
 dismiss as an extremist anyone with plans big enough to be measured in years
 instead of quarters. Globalization replaced technology as the hope for the
 future. Since the ’90s migration “from bricks to clicks” didn’t work as hoped,
 investors went back to bricks (housing) and BRICs (globalization). The result
 was another bubble, this time in real estate.
The entrepreneurs who stuck with Silicon Valley learned four big lessons
 from the dot-com crash that still guide business thinking today:
 1. Make incremental advances
 Grand visions inflated the bubble, so they should not be indulged. Anyone
 who claims to be able to do something great is suspect, and anyone who
 wants to change the world should be more humble. Small, incremental
 steps are the only safe path forward.
 2. Stay lean and flexible
 All companies must be “lean,” which is code for “unplanned.” You should
 not know what your business will do; planning is arrogant and inflexible.
Instead you should try things out, “iterate,” and treat entrepreneurship as
 agnostic experimentation.
 3. Improve on the competition
 Don’t try to create a new market prematurely. The only way to know you
 have a real business is to start with an already existing customer, so you
 should build your company by improving on recognizable products
 already offered by successful competitors.
 4. Focus on product, not sales
 If your product requires advertising or salespeople to sell it, it’s not good
 enough: technology is primarily about product development, not
 distribution. Bubble-era advertising was obviously wasteful, so the only
 sustainable growth is viral growth.
 These lessons have become dogma in the startup world; those who would
 ignore them are presumed to invite the justified doom visited upon technology
 in the great crash of 2000. And yet the opposite principles are probably more
 correct:
 1. It is better to risk boldness than triviality.
 2. A bad plan is better than no plan.
 3. Competitive markets destroy profits.
 4. Sales matters just as much as product.
 It’s true that there was a bubble in technology. The late ’90s was a time of
 hubris: people believed in going from 0 to 1. Too few startups were actually
 getting there, and many never went beyond talking about it. But people
 understood that we had no choice but to find ways to do more with less. The
 market high of March 2000 was obviously a peak of insanity; less obvious but
 more important, it was also a peak of clarity. People looked far into the future,
 saw how much valuable new technology we would need to get there safely, and
 judged themselves capable of creating it.
We still need new technology, and we may even need some 1999-style hubris
 and exuberance to get it. To build the next generation of companies, we must
 abandon the dogmas created after the crash. That doesn’t mean the opposite
 ideas are automatically true: you can’t escape the madness of crowds by
 dogmatically rejecting them. Instead ask yourself: how much of what you know
 about business is shaped by mistaken reactions to past mistakes? The most
 contrarian thing of all is not to oppose the crowd but to think for yourself.
ALL HAPPY COMPANIES ARE DIFFEREN